{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red11\green76\blue180;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c1961\c38824\c75686;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Page 1 after Cover\'85I have a cover photo for this text if needed.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Font text is important to soften\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 In 1984 this verdant pasture, long a source of feed and water for livestock was protected for conservation by the Osborn family. In 2017 the entire 10.8 acres were donated to the Town of Philipstown by OSI and Scenic Hudson. *\'a0 Framed by trails to Sugarloaf and Castle Rock its abundant loamy earth is bathed in year-round sunlight.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Now proposed for Philipstown\'92s town-wide community gardens, this unique pasture combines agricultural elements rarely found together on the same site. Quenched by an artesian spring on the western edge and the Arden Brook in the eastern tree line, it has all the prerequisites for thriving habitat and creative, varied and successful community agriculture.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 * {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.openspaceinstitute.org/news/the-open-space-institute-scenic-hudson-donate-land-for-new-philipstown-park"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://www.openspaceinstitute.org/news/the-open-space-institute-scenic-hudson-donate-land-for-new-philipstown-park}}
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 About Page
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 A 
\f2\b New Leaf
\f0\b0  steering committee proposed to the Town Board to transition this pasture into town-wide intergenerational community gardens; produce, ornamental and pollinator gardens.\'a0 A first draft Master Plan was presented to the Town Board in Spring 2019. Aligning with 
\f2\b New Leaf\'92s
\f0\b0  vision of an intergenerational site, our proposal is to guarantee an organic plot to every residence in Philipstown.\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 The proposed plan is a starting point, not intended to be completed all at once. Listed below are the Garden Aspects; planned, smaller team-based garden projects within the scope of the plan.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 Garden Aspects:\'a0\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Perennial exchange garden and meandering walk along the brook\'a0\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Netted community berry garden\'a0\uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Modular individual plot gardens for produce\'a0\uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Separate teen garden\'a0\'a0\uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Youth Habitat Education program and\uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Educational programming including beekeeping, pollinators, birding, etc.\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\sa213\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Irrigation plan with a light-footprint from the artesian spring reduces the need for individual watering trips thereby reducing potential traffic.\'a0
\f2\b \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f3\i \cf2 An early order of business is a complete inventory of habitat and the resident invasive species and establish a plan to eradicate invasives and restore agriculture.
\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 Discussions with Rec Commission
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 New Leaf
\f0\b0  has been encouraged by the Town Board to consult with the Philipstown Recreation Commission. These positive discussions have vetted New Leaf\'92s proposal with the concerns and plans the Recreation Commission has for the property. If 
\f2\b New Leaf
\f0\b0  is granted approval by the Town Board, we\'92ll begin targeted but light density volunteer work on a few limited Garden Aspects.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 Governance
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Following approval 
\f2\b New Leaf Restoration\'92s
\f0\b0  steering committee will begin a process to formalize Master Plan, governance, structure, not-for-profit financial oversight and identify and seek a Board of Directors replacing the steering committee.\'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 Create a team
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 All work will team based as the chosen way to reduce/limit individual time commitments and still get the project completed. If you would like to know more about the different teams available to either join, lead or creating your own team, please send an email for more info to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:info@newleaf-restoration.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 info@newleaf-restoration.org}}
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \'a0\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Philipstown residents are invited to add their voice to restore a rare agricultural habitat with intergenerational gardens of produce and beauty.\'a0 If you feel favorably to this idea, want to learn more about our team-based plan or even get on an early list of plot holders, please add your contact information to receive our monthly updates.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Thank you
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Steering Committee, New Leaf Restoration \'a0 
\f1\fs24 \
}